---
date: 2007-11-14
title: "1337: Part 3"
num: 343
alt: >-
  I once asked an NSA guy whether they'd broken RSA. And I know I can trust him, because I asked if he was lying to me and he said no.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/1337_part_3.png
---
[Outside, Adrian Lamo is helping Elaine Roberts over a barbed wire fence.]

It was the late 90's. Elaine crisscrossed the country with Adrian Lamo, the 'Homeless Hacker', learning to gain entry into systems both virtual and physical.

Adrian Lamo: So you just throw a rug over the fence and... say, what *is* this place anyway?

Roberts: Nowhere special.

Lamo: ...Elaine, is this NSA Headquarters?

Roberts: ...Look, I just want to see if they've broken RSA.

[Inside, Lawrence Lessig is sitting at a table, Roberts is standing across the table swinging a knife.]

She learned, from Lawrence Lessig, about the monstrosity that is U.S. Copyright Law.

Roberts: So, how do we fix the system? Stab bad guys?

Lessig: I'm starting something called "Creative Commons"

*Shink*

Elaine Roberts: I think we should stab bad guys...

[Steve Jobs is lying up in his bed, Roberts is balancing while crouched on the foot of Jobs's bed.]

She met with Steve Jobs to discuss the future of Apple.

Roberts: Compression and bandwidth are changing everything.

Jobs: Who are you? It's 3:00AM!

Roberts: Apple should make a portable music player.

Jobs: I'm calling the police.

Roberts: Hey, idea — integrate it with a cell phone!

[Scene has two of Elaine's activities. In one she is drumming, in the other she has an electric guitar on her shoulders, one hand on the frets. The other hand is holding a laptop by the touchpad.]

She even, for a time, took up drumming, and helped start a movement among teen girls, a culture of self-taught female programmers and musicians, coding by day and rocking out by night—

Roberts: Riot Prrl.