---
date: 2008-09-29
title: "Height"
num: 482
alt: >-
  Interestingly, on a true vertical log plot, I think the Eiffel Tower's sides would really be straight lines.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/height.png
---
**Top of observable universe**

[Black Hat is standing on top, throwing a black kitty down.]

Black Cat: Mrowl!

[Map of the universe from observable universe to Earth. Each area of item is labeled. Labels left to right, up to down:]

(46 billion light years up)

Hubble Deep Field Objects

-One billion light years-

Great Attractor

Antennae Galaxies (colliding)

Andromeda

Holy crap lots of space

-One million light years-

Magellanic Clouds

Edge of galaxy

Galactic center

Crab Nebula

Orion Nebula

Horsehead Nebula

Romulan neutral zone

The Pleiades, duh!

Rigel

Betelgeuse

Ford Prefect

[Three arrows are pointing up above three lines with the following label:]

-Expanding shell of radio transmissions-

[Above a dotted line:]

Edge of federation sector 0-0-1

Pollux

Arcturus

Missing WMDs

Sirius

Barnard's Star

Alpha Centauri

-One parsec-

-One light year-

Oort Cloud (?)

Bupkis

Comet which will destroy Earth in late 2063

Pioneer 10

Voyager I

Eris (All hail Discordia!)

Pluto (Not a planet. Neener neener.)

Neptune

Uranus

Saturn

[Two arrows point to two moons, one next to each of the planets above and below.]

<-- Life -->

Jupiter

Asteroids

Mars

Venus

Sun

Mercury

Spaceship Planet Express: Hey, a heaping bowl of salt!

Spaceship Discovery One: Open the fridge door, Hal.

Moon

Human altitude record (Apollo 13)

2nd place: Snoop Dogg

Space elevator - One of these days, promise!

Geosynchronous Orbit

GPS satellites

Lunar lander: In retrospect, they <u>shouldn't</u> have sent a poet. I have no idea how to land.

International Space Station

Space junk

-Official edge of space (100 km)-

Meteors

-1/10 ATM-

High altitude balloons

Airliners

Shuttle Columbia lost

-1/2 ATM-

Cory Doctrow

Everest

Helicopters (6000 m)

Cueball: Woo Python!

[A vertical scale is drawn along the right side of the picture, starting at 1 km and getting progressivly smaller and smaller.]

1 km

-800 m-

Burj Dubai (~800 m)

500

400

Eiffel Tower (325 m)

200

Kites

Great Pyramid (140 m)

Pop fly

Redwood (115 m)

100m

Oak (20 m)

A person in the oak: Hey squirrels!

Tallest stilts

Brachiosaur (13 m)

Giraffe (8 m)

[Megan and Cueball holding the kite are labeled:]

Folks

**The observable universe, from top to bottom**

~On a log scale~

Sizes are not to scale, but heights above the Earth's surface are accurate on a log scale. (That is, each step up is double the height.)