---
date: 2008-12-05
title: "Friends"
num: 513
alt: >-
  Friends with detriments.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/friends.png
---
[Cueball is talking to Megan.]

Cueball: I have a crush on you.

[Cueball is shown alone.]

Cueball: I could ask you out, and move on with my life if you said no.

[Cueball has his arms out.]

Cueball: Or,

Cueball: <big>WE COULD BE FRIENDS!</big>

[Cueball has one palm out.]

Cueball: See, I don't want to consider that you might not be attracted to me. I'm scared of rejection, so I've decided relationships should grow smoothly out of friendships.

[Megan is shown sitting at her computer.]

Cueball: When you have problems, I'll be there for you, night after night.

Cueball: Selflessly.

Computer: \*hug\*

[Megan is shown slamming a door and walking to Cueball to get a hug.]

Cueball: I'll tear down the jerks you date, and wait for you to realize how good I am for you. That only <u>I</u> will ever understand you.

*SLAM*

Megan: *Sniff*

Cueball: There there

[Cueball is shown alone again.]

Cueball: You don't want to hurt my feelings, and I won't ever force the issue. I'll tell myself it's because I "value our friendship."

[Again.]

Cueball: Bit by bit, I'll make you depend on me.

[Cueball and Megan are shown sitting on a rock in a park, reading a book together.]

Cueball: You'll think about how long it would take to build this kind of connection again.

[Cueball and Megan are shown sitting on a couch drinking, getting closer, and kissing.]

Cueball: And in a moment of weakness

Cueball: and loneliness

Cueball: you'll give in.

[Megan is shown sitting at the computer with Cueball behind her facing the other way washing dishes.]

Cueball: It'll feel comfortable and natural. You'll quietly revise your definition of love and try to be happy. And sometimes you will be.

[Megan is shown sitting at the computer.]

Cueball: Only the wistfulness in your gaze and the tiny pause before you say "I love you" will hint that this wasn't the ending you'd hoped for.

Cueball: Sound good?

[Megan is holding hands with another boy, talking to Cueball.]

Megan: ...I'm going to date this jerk.

Cueball: But he doesn't respect you!