---
date: 2008-05-28
title: "Fantasy"
num: 429
alt: >-
  I guess if she accepted irrational realities, she'd hardly be my fantasy.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/fantasy.png
---
[Cueball sits hugging his knees. From his head, there go three bubbles to a thought bubble.]

Cueball: If only there were some way we could be together.

[The comic fades into a thought bubble in shaded gray color. The bubble contains the next four panels.]

<div style="color:#666; margin-left:1em">

[Cueball and Megan are lounging on a bed. He seems to be massaging her neck while she is lying down.]

Megan: We're so lucky to have each other. How did it happen, anyway?

Cueball: I, uh... I don't remember.

[Zoom in on Megan sitting up with her hands behind her. The bed is not drawn.]

Megan: No, really, how did we get together? It's hard to imagine it happening.

Cueball (off-screen): It does strain the bounds of fantasy...

Megan: ...Fantasy? That's it!

[Megan now stands up at the foot of the bed. Cueball sits with one hand around his knee and the other to his chin.]

Megan: My God, it's the only explan-ation: We're objects in some transient fantasy. We'll be gone when it ends!

Cueball: We'll lose each other.

Megan: Oh God.

[Megan leaps from the bed with a flaming torch. Cueball jumps after her on his knees with his hands in the air.]

Megan: Well, I'm not going out quietly. I'm burning this fucking world.

Cueball: Burn the world!

Megan: Fire! Fire! Cleanse this hellish place—

</div>

[The thought ends with three bubbles going down to Cueball, who is now standing and scratching his head. Again, the comic is back to the normal black drawing style.]

Cueball: ??