---
date: 2011-01-26
title: "Local g"
num: 852
alt: >-
  In Rio de Janeiro in 2016, the same jump will get an athlete 0.25% higher (>1cm) than in London four years prior.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/local_g.png
---
[Cueball is sitting at a desk, working, with a laptop in front of him. Megan is behind him. Cueball has turned his head to talk to Megan]

Cueball: Did you know that because of centrifugal<sup>\*</sup> force and the shape of the Earth, "gravity" can vary by nearly half a percent between major cities?

<sup>\*</sup><small><small>Yes, centrifugal. xkcd.com/123</small></small>

[Closeup on Cueball, who is looking down at some notes.]

Cueball: That's not a lot, but it could affect, say, pole vaulting. In a 5m jump, it could make a difference of 2cm.

[Zoomed out on Cueball, who is typing on his laptop. Megan is behind him, with her hand on her chin.]

Megan: Huh, interesting.

Cueball: I'm going to write an article reevaluating vaulting records to take this into account.

Three days later:

[Cueball is sitting in an armchair. Megan is behind him, and is pointing behind her.]

Megan: Good job. There's an angry mob of athletes outside.

[Cueball looks off the balcony. A mob of athletes is out of frame.]

Athlete: That record was mine!

Athlete: How dare you cast doubt on our honor?

Athlete: Have you no *respect*?!

Athlete: Make him pay!

Cueball: Hey, the math doesn't lie. Suck it, jocks.

[Megan stands next to Cueball, who is walking away to the right]

Megan: Dude, don't provoke them.

Cueball: Whatever. The building's locked. Let 'em vent for a-

*crash*

Off-panel Athlete: GET HIM!

[Megan stands next to Cueball. They are both in shock. Megan has her hand on her mouth.]

Cueball: Crap! How did the pole vaulters get up to our balcony?

[Beat frame with only Megan. Cueball is out of frame.]

Megan: ...

[Beat frame with just Cueball.]

[Zoom in on Megan and Cueball. Cueball is facepalming.]

Megan: That might be the stupidest question I've ever heard.

Cueball: Right.