---
date: 2012-11-30
title: "Two Years"
num: 1141
alt: >-
  She won the first half of all our chemo Scrabble games, but then her IV drugs started kicking in and I *dominated*.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/two_years.png
---
[Randall and Randall's fiancée sit on a bed, Randall's fiancée is talking on the phone. The person she is talking to, a doctor holding a clipboard, is shown inset.]

Randall's fiancée: Oh god.

[Randall and Randall's fiancée sit together while Randall's fiancée, now bald, is receiving chemotherapy. They are both on their laptops.]

IV pump: ... Beeep ... Beeep ... Beeep ...

[Randall and Randall's fiancée (who is wearing a knit cap) are paddling a kayak against a scenic mountain backdrop.]

[Randall and Randall's fiancée sit at a table, staring at a cell phone. There is a clock on the wall. Her head is stubbly.]

Randall's fiancée: How long can it take to read a scan!?

[Randall and Randall's fiancée are back at the hospital again, Randall's fiancée receiving chemo. They are playing Scrabble.]

Randall: "Zarg" isn't a word.

Randall's fiancée: But *caaaancer.*

Randall: ...Ok, fine.

[Randall and Randall's fiancée (wearing a knit cap) are listening to a Cueball-like friend. A large thought bubble is above their heads and it obscures the friends talk. The text below, split in three is the only part there can be no doubt about:]

Friend: So next year you should come visit us up in the mounta [final 'A' partly obscured, but distinctive enough to suggest the whole word as being "mountain(s)"]

a [end of that line, end of word, follows obscured character best matching either an 'E' or 'F']

and [obscured next word starts with a upper near-vertical, similar to edge of 'V'/’W' but could match the style of 'H' or other characters]

Randall and Randall's fiancée (thinking): **"Next year"**

[Randall and Randall's fiancée are getting married, with a heart above their heads. Randall's wife's hair is growing back.]

[Randall and Randall's wife (wearing a knit cap) stand on a beach, watching a whale jump out of water.]

*Fwoosh*

[Randall's wife is sitting at a desk with her laptop standing on top of two books. Her hair has grown back a little more. Randall stands behind her.]

Randall: Hey—

Randall: you're doing science,

Randall: and you're still alive.

Randall's wife: Yeah!

[Randall and Randall's wife sit under a tall tree on a hill.]

Randall: It's really only been two years?

Randall's wife: They were big years.

[Randall and Randall's wife sit at a table in a fancy restaurant. Her hair has grown back even more. The waiter (Hairy) brings them a dish with a cover on it.]

Waiter: Happy... Anniversary?

Randall's wife: Biopsy-versary!

Waiter: <small>...Eww.</small>