---
date: 2014-06-09
title: "4.5 Degrees"
num: 1379
alt: >-
  The good news is that according to the latest IPCC report, if we enact aggressive emissions limits now, we could hold the warming to 2°C. That's only HALF an ice age unit, which is probably no big deal.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/4_5_degrees.png
---
Without prompt, aggressive limits on CO<sub>2</sub> emissions, the Earth will likely warm by an average of 4°-5°C by the century's end.

**HOW BIG A CHANGE IS THAT?**

[A ruler chart is drawn inside a frame.]

In the coldest part of the last ice age, Earth's average temperature was 4.5°C below the 20th century norm.

Let's call a 4.5°C difference one **"Ice Age Unit."**

[A ruler with five main divisions — each again with 3 smaller quarter division markers. Above it the five main divisions are marked as follows with 0 in the middle:]

-2 IAU  -1 IAU  0 +1 IAU  +2 IAU

[Next to the 0 marking a black arrow points toward 0.25 on the scale and above it is written:]

Where we are today

[The rest of the text is below the ruler.]

[To the far left below -2 IAU a curved arrow points to the left. Below it is written:]

Snowball earth (-4 IAU)

[Below -1 IAU a black arrow point toward this division. Below the arrow is written:]

20,000 years ago

[Below this an image of a glacier. At the top of the image is written:]

My neighborhood:

[At the bottom of the image is an arrow pointing to the glacier:]

Half a mile of ice

[Below 0 IAU a black arrow point toward this division. Below the arrow is written:]

Average during modern times

[Below this an image of Cueball standing on a green field with a city skyline in the background. At the top of the image is written:]

My neighborhood:

Cueball: Hi!

[Below +1 IAU a black arrow point toward this division. Below the arrow is written:]

Where we'll be in 86 years

[Below this a white image. At the top of the image is written:]

My neighborhood:

[Below this is a very large:]

**?**

[Below +2 IAU a black arrow point toward this division. Below the arrow is written:]

Cretaceous hothouse

+200m sea level rise

No glaciers

Palm trees at the poles