---
date: 2014-01-24
title: "Cold"
num: 1321
alt: >-
  'You see the same pattern all over. Take Detroit--' 'Hold on. Why do you know all these statistics offhand?' 'Oh, um, no idea. I definitely spend my evenings hanging out with friends, and not curating a REALLY NEAT database of temperature statistics. Because, pshh, who would want to do that, right? Also, snowfall records.'
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/cold.png
---
[It's cold, two Guys wearing knit caps (one knit cap is white the other black) are walking outside and the White Knit Cap Guy is shivering.]

White Knit Cap Guy: It is ***brutal*** out. So much for global warming, huh?

Black Knit Cap Guy: *\*sigh\** This used to happen all the time.

White Knit Cap Guy: What?

[A dot plot showing number of days with lows below zero Fahrenheit by year since 1970.]

Black Knit Cap Guy (off-screen): You're from St. Louis, right?

Black Knit Cap Guy (off-screen): On average, it used to get below 0 °F there a handful of days per year.

Black Knit Cap Guy (off-screen): But you haven't had a day like that since the nineties.

[Above the dot plot to the left is a label in a black frame:]

Days with lows < 0°F

[Below the dot plot are written the years:]

1970 1980 1990 2000 2010

[Below again is written in small letters:]

Source: rcc-acis.org/climatecentral

[Black Knit Cap Guy has stopped walking.]

Black Knit Cap Guy: Then, in 2014, when the first polar vortex hit, it dipped below zero for two days.

Black Knit Cap Guy: And everyone freaked out

[They continue walking.]

Black Knit Cap Guy: because what used to be normal

Black Knit Cap Guy: now feels too cold.

White Knit Cap Guy: It *is* too cold!

[Above the last panel is written in a black frame:]

The Future:

[Cueball is pointing at a patch of ice.]

Cueball: Look at this—***ice!*** In ***St. Louis!*** So much for global warming.

Person off-screen: *\*sigh\**