---
date: 2016-01-11
title: "Magnus"
num: 1628
alt: >-
  In the latest round, 9-year-old Muhammad Ali beat 10-year-old JFK at air hockey, while Secretariat lost the hot-dog-eating crown to 12-year-old Ken Jennings. Meanwhile, in a huge upset, 11-year-old Martha Stewart knocked out the adult Ronda Rousey.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/magnus.png
---
[Cueball walks from the right towards Megan while holding up his smartphone.]

Cueball: Magnus Carlsen has an app where you can play chess against a simulated version of him at different ages.

Cueball: I can beat the 8½-year-old, but lose to him at 9.

[While Megan talks to Cueball he lifts his hand to his chin, while holding the smartphone down.]

Megan: I want that, but for other games. Can I beat 8-year-old Serena Williams at Tennis? Swim laps faster than a 6-year-old Michael Phelps?

Cueball: We should make a simulator.

[Cueball walks out left and Megan follows him. He must have pocketed his phone as it is not in his hand.]

Cueball: ...Why limit it to games? Can I cook a better chicken than 11-year-old Martha Stewart?

Megan: Win an election against 12-year-old JFK?

[At the top frame of this panel there is a small frame with a caption. Below lies Megan on the floor to the left in front of her laptop, while Cueball sits on the floor to the right facing her in front of his own laptop. Between them are some heavy books.]

Soon...

[Cueball and Megan sitting at laptops in the bottom of the panel.]

Megan: Looks like 8-year-old Magnus Carlsen can swim faster than 9-year-old Martha Stewart.

Cueball: But they both lose a hot-dog-eating contest to 2-year-old Secretariat.

Megan: This project has gotten weird.