---
date: 2024-01-01
title: "2024"
num: 2875
alt: >-
  It wasn't originally constitutionally required, but presidents who served two terms have traditionally followed George Washington's example and gotten false teeth.
img: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/2024_2x.png
---
[Ponytail and Cueball are walking.]

Ponytail: So this is 2024.

Cueball: Yup. Guess it's an election year now.

Ponytail: Again? Man, those just keep happening, huh?

[Ponytail and Cueball stop walking and Cueball has turned to face Ponytail.]

Ponytail: Who's the president these days, anyway? Is it still Obama?

Cueball: What? No? He hasn't been... How do you not...

[Ponytail and Cueball standing.]

Ponytail: Darn, I liked him. Is he running this time?

Cueball: No, he's not allowed to.

Ponytail: He's not? Why?

Cueball: Constitution.

[Zoom in on the upper part of Ponytail who checks her smartphone held up in one hand. The text she is reading on her phone is shown in a square speech bubble above her head, with a jagged thin snip from the speech bubble extending from it down to above her smartphone.]

Phone: *Amendment 22*

Phone: No person shall be elected to the office of the president more than twice

Ponytail: What?? C'mon...

[Ponytail has raised her hand palm up towards Cueball.]

Ponytail: Don't all your cells get replaced every seven years, Ship of Theseus-style? Is he even the same person?

Ponytail: Maybe "no person shall be elected more than twice" isn't a prohibition, it's more of an observation, like "you can't step in the same river twice."

[Zoom in on the upper part of Cueball.]

Cueball: Isn't the cell thing a myth?

Cueball: I think tooth enamel has a turnover half-life of 30+ years. His teeth molecules are probably the same.

[Ponytail has turned around and walks away from Cueball with a finger raised high.]

Ponytail: So if Obama just gets false teeth, he can run again! I need to talk to a dentist and a lawyer!

Cueball: The Supreme Court is about to vote 9-0 to block your number.